Every month, AI agents on cloud code,
co-work, and codecs are getting better
at reasoning, writing code, and
navigating software. But for AI agents
to actually become our main interface
for work and doing work autonomously,
there's still one missing layer:
context. So, in this video, I'll show
you how I built a second brain in
Obsidian that plugs into co-work, or any
AI agent I use, giving them persistent
context and memory around me and my
business. I'll cover the five big
advantages of this setup and show you
why this might have huge implications
for how we work and how businesses are
run. And I'll show you how it actually
works and an easy way for you to set it
up and get started with this today. Now,
before showing you how this works, how
to set it up, and why I recommend
starting with this today, let me quickly
go over the five big advantages with
some examples of having a second brain.
Now, the first one is the most obvious
one, and it's persistent context. Right
now, most people use AI in isolated
conversations. You have to reexlain
everything in each chat about your
situation, your project, your workflows,
etc. And with a second brain, your AI
agent has persistent access to all of
this context and not just a few facts,
but detailed context around everything.
You can see in my Obsidian, I have
context saved around everything. My
business, my strategy, my projects, my
brand, my workflows, my team, uh about
myself, my meetings, literally
everything. And here in this graph view,
we can see the relationships between all
of these documents. for example, my AI
accelerator here and here's me. Now,
I'll show you later how this actually
works and how to set this up. But
because of this, I can now open a new
chat session with, for example, Cloud
Co-work, and ask something like, "What
should I focus on today? It's already
connected to my knowledge, Obsidian
Vault, how they call it." And you can
see Claude now pulls my context to give
me an answer. And because it pulled this
context, it now knows that my main
priority should be landing page copy
changes, recording the Obsidian video,
and organizing the Spain offsite in
April. I could even ask it things like,
"Write me a LinkedIn post based on AI
topics we discussed in our team meetings
this week. Use the LinkedIn instant uh
skill." It will now go through our team
meetings, see what AI topics we
discussed, and use a LinkedIn skill to
actually write it in my tone of voice,
then pulls the context from my second
brain, uses the skill, and then I'll put
a LinkedIn post according to the topic
we discussed, which is of course this
second brain topic. This week, my team
and I built something different. We
created a second brain for our entire
business. Now, this is just an example,
but you can see the power of this. And
with the new scheduled task feature,
this becomes even more powerful.
Secondly, besides co-work now always
being able to pull up to date and
complete context around me and my
business in any chat, it can also
directly update the context in my second
brain. So, any decision, any rule, any
project update I make in an AI chat, it
can log it directly back into my second
brain. For example, if I see something
in this LinkedIn skill that I don't
like, for example, never use um m dashes
when writing content for me, I can say
something like remember this in my
second brain or in my AI operating
system. You can see it now saved and
updated this in my second brain as a
role in the writing preferences. Now,
this is huge because it means the more
you and your team use AI to do tasks,
the more context is built, the more
guidelines it has and the better your AI
becomes for yourself and your entire
team. Thirdly, there's also a big
advantage of having this second brain
when building and using skills. Now, if
you don't know what skills are yet,
skills are basically saved instructions
for your AI agent on cloud code or cloud
co-work on how to do a specific process
or task. For example, in this LinkedIn
skill, it goes through the step-by-step
process of how to write a LinkedIn post
in my style and essentially allows these
agents to automate workflows just like I
showed you in the example. Now, I have a
full video covering skills if you're
still unfamiliar with it, which I'll
make sure to link in the description
below, too. But what changes with this
second brain? Skills usually have
reference files and context inside the
skill folder. For example, in this uh
LinkedIn skill, I have a pen profile
background document, a hook template
document, an ICP document, a LinkedIn
example document, and a voice
personality document. Now, we use these
reference files in skills of course to
get to better outputs, but it usually
takes a long time to provide all the
context every new skill needs to get to
a good output. And if you have all of
the relevant context around your ICP,
your tone of voice, your business
already in your second brain, it means
you can build good skills far faster.
This means you only need to lay out the
process and point it to the right
context in your second brain. And you
don't have to give it the exact same
context over and over again for each new
skill you're building. For example, I
have dozens of skills that share
reference files around my ICP, their
pain points, what my business does, etc.
As you can see, my newsletter writer
skill shares a lot of the same context
files as my LinkedIn one. So the new way
I'm building out my skills with this
second brain setup is not by adding this
extra context or reference files in the
skill itself but by just pointing my
skill to the right context in my second
brain. For example, this is my new
LinkedIn skill the LinkedIn instant and
in this case you can see that I only
have the skill MD only the process
instructions and there I direct it to
where I can find the specific context
files in my second brain. And this means
that any update I make to a reference
file in my second brain, for example, in
the ICP document, all of the skills that
use this ICP document are instantly
updated instead of me manually updating
dozens of skills myself. It also means
that this rule, for example, that I
added, uh, never use mashes when writing
content for me, is now updated as a rule
in my writing preferences, which is one
of the documents many of my content
writing skills point towards. So, my
newsletter skill is automatically
updated with this same rule. Now,
another huge advantage of this setup, of
course, is that it works across any AI
you use. So, your second brain in
Obsidian is really just a folder of
markdown files, which I'll explain in
more detail in a second. But that's all
it is. It's just a folder that I can now
give Clot Codework access to. I can give
Clot Code access to. I can give Codeex,
Anti-gravity, or any other AI agent
provider access to. For example, I can
go to the code tab or just use Cloud
Code in the terminal. give it access to
the same folder of my second brain the
Ben iOS and I can ask the same question
what should I focus on today
and as you can see clot code has access
to the same context as you can see
landing page copy Obsidian video and
Spain offsite and this even works across
different AI providers here I gave Codex
access to the same folder as the same
question as you can see landing page
copy YouTube production and Spain
offsite and then lastly which is huge if
you're a business is that this is not
only for yourself but can actually scale
across your entire team and business. Me
and my team now share this same second
brain with my business strategy, ICP
understanding, uh to voice references,
company goals, etc. So instantly, my
entire team's AI agents have access to
this context that make them far more
powerful and productive for my business.
For example, my entire team will always
have access to up-to-date strategy
documents, ICP documents that their
agents can instantly use. And with the
context and skills that I've built, I
can now let an engineer write my
LinkedIn post with an onpoint tone of
voice. In Obsidian, I can sync these
updates in my context across the entire
team here. And you can imagine that this
setup could completely change the way
you run a business, which I'll get to
later in this video. But let me first
explain how this actually works because
it might look a little bit overwhelming
and complicated, but it really is not.
So, what is Obsidian? All Obsidian
really is is just a visual overlay of a
folder and its files on your computer.
As you can see here, all these folders
that I'm seeing in Obsidian, contacts,
daily departments, intelligence,
onboarding, I also have available here
in the folder that Obsidian is connected
to. And all we really do is we point
cloud co-work, cloud code or codeex or
any other AI agent we use to the same
folder on your computer. So they can
directly read and write to the same
files you see in Obsidian. And that's
why Obsidian is a great app to do this
on because we don't have to sync
anything, use an API or an MCP or a
cloud-based software. It's all local. So
in coowwork for example, all I do is
give it access to that folder. But if we
have thousands of these context files,
how does our AI agent on clockwork or
clock code actually know what context to
use and how does it update it? Now
again, this is pretty simple. The way it
updates and retrieves the right data
from your Obsidian folder or vault is
through the cloud. MD file. Now the
cloud.md file is basically just an
instruction you give to your AI agent on
cloud co-work or cloud code on how to
navigate the second brain or the folder.
So if I ask coworker a question like
what did we talk about in our team
meeting yesterday? My AI agent first of
all knows that it needs more context to
answer this question. It then reads the
cloud MD file to understand where in my
Obsidian vault or folder it will find
more information around this. Then it
reads those specific documents like for
example yesterday's Firefly transcript
to answer the question back to the user.
So you can basically see that cloud.md
file as sort of like a system prompt or
an instruction layer that tells your AI
agent how the vault or your folder is
structured and where to retrieve and
save data. So as you can see in this
session with cloud co-work where we
wrote the LinkedIn post, it has access
to one file which is the instructions
for the cloud MD and this is basically
just instructions for the AI agent on
where to find specific information in
the second brain and where to save it.
So you can see how this system works,
the file structure, knowledge routing,
and this same clot.md file or the
instructions you also see here in the
Obsidian vault. Now, don't worry, I'll
show you later in this video exactly how
to get to this cloud MD and how to set
up these instructions easily. Now, you
might be asking, how's this actually
different from CL's built-in memory, and
why would we actually need Obsidian if
it's just a folder? Now, first of all,
CL's built-in memory is very limited and
is basically designed to remember the
most essential facts about you. It's
generally stored in one document. So the
difference really is the scope of the
context. My Obsidian Vault, as you can
see, has thousands of pieces of context.
And secondly, if Obsidian is just a
folder, why would we need Obsidian? The
short answer is you don't need it. Uh
you can set this up in a folder
yourself, too. But honestly, it's just a
nice way for you to visualize, organize,
navigate, uh search, and link your notes
and files together. my context and
knowledge sources over the last weeks
have been growing really fast and
honestly without Obsidian I wouldn't be
able to organize it the way uh that I
have right now through the graph view we
can also see the relationships between
all of these context files it
automatically makes these connections
between different documents or context
files uh for example in the brand
identity document you can see that we
have the voice positioning where links
to the ICP for our ideal customer
profile and the pain points of our
customer this is also what your AI agent
is able to navigate so for example if it
reads the brand guidelines and feels
like it needs more context around my
ICP, you can see this link or wiki link,
what they call it, and actually look up
this document to find more information.
And the nice thing about Obsidian is I
can really easily sync the uh updated
context across my team if you're going
to use this in a team setting. It's also
entirely free to use and download. So, I
just recommend using it. Now, before
showing you how to set it up, let me
zoom out for one second because I think
this setup has much bigger implications
than just some extra productivity. I
think it could entirely change the way
people work and businesses are run. So
there are multiple of these big
developments coming together right now
in AI. Uh everyone can see that these
L&Ms are becoming better at reasoning.
MCPs are getting better and now allow
them to efficiently navigate softwares
and the internet and skills plugins,
schedule tasks, etc. now allow you to
automate uh repetitive tasks fast and
easily. But the missing layer for those
AI agents was really context. And with a
setup like this, I think it will slowly
allow people and businesses to start
adopting an AI interface like cloud
co-work or cloud code as the main
interface to do their work instead of
hopping between 15 different softwares
all the time. But maybe more
importantly, I think this is the
development that will slowly allow AI
agents to start doing work autonomously
without our involvement. Personally, for
example, since I've really started using
co-work on a daily basis, I've been less
and less in my Gmail inbox. I've been
less on Google doing research. I'm
barely in my CRM anymore. And now with
these combination of MCPs, connectors,
and scheduled skills, I can now automate
end-to-end processes like email
follow-ups without my involvement. And
that's why I really believe you need to
start building this today because the
value of this setup isn't in the setup
itself. It's in the context that builds
over time. Every decision that gets
logged, every correction or role that
gets saved, every project that gets
documented, and every skill that gets
made, it all compounds. So the AI agent
you and your entire team have after 6
months of using this is far more
powerful than the one you start with on
day one. And if your competitor for
example starts 6 months after you,
they're not just behind on the tool,
they're behind on 6 month of
intelligence that makes the tool
actually perform far better for you. And
even when better models come out, and
they will, the same context just becomes
more powerful. So the context I think
will be your actual mode in the upcoming
months and years. So how do you actually
set this up for yourself or your
business? Now, the key thing to keep in
mind when you get started is that you
don't want to overoptimize. It might
look very overwhelming what I just
showed you in my own setup, but this
setup I started with just probably five
files a few weeks ago. This context will
grow very naturally the more you use AI.
You just want to sort of start very
simple and let the system evolve
naturally. The same is the case for the
file structure. It is important, but you
do want to start simple and let it
evolve naturally. There is really no
perfect file structure because it's
going to be highly context dependent. It
will depend on your context, your
business, your goals, and your projects.
Um, now that being said, there are two
file structures that I recommend and
I've seen work well as a starting file
structure. One for if you're running a
business uh and you want to use this
across your team and one if you uh want
to use this for yourself as a
professional or as a soloreneur. Now, go
over the file structure quickly so you
understand what's in each because it is
important. But we've also built a
plug-in you can use in your AI agent on
cloud co-work or cloud code to help you
set up and get to these starting
structures fast, which I'll show you in
a second how to use. And second, what
you want to keep in mind when I'm going
through this is that many of these files
are and can be created by your AI agent.
So don't get overwhelmed. You'll get
there naturally. So I'll cover the file
structure that I use for my business
setup and then I'll show you quickly the
personal setup which is basically the
same but with less files. So first we
have the context folder and this is
where you store general context around
who you are, your business, your
strategy, your team, your brand and it's
basically everything your AI agent needs
to understand about you and your
situation always. For example, in
context, I have information about my
team, strategy, stakeholders, pain
points, organization, operator, the ICP,
and the brand. Second, we have daily.
And this is basically where your AI
agent logs everything that happened each
day across your sessions, maybe across
your meetings. And this is probably the
most important one because it gives your
AI agent that continuity between
conversations. Then third we have
departments. Now this is if you run a
business uh you will of course have
different departments. For example in my
case community, content engineering
partnerships operations etc. And then in
the community folder for example we can
have SOPs around work that needs to be
done in my community. For example here
YouTube to community repurposing. The
fourth one is intelligence. And this is
a bit like the first one context but
much more detailed. And this is the
place where uh things like meeting
transcripts, decisions, uh competitor
research, market insights get stored
over time. Then we have onboarding. Um
here you can have SOPs around uh
onboarding new team members or even
clients. Then we have projects here. Now
projects will highly depend on uh your
context. For me, projects can be for
example different YouTube videos I'm
working on. So I can ideate and work on
scripting uh on one video between
different chats. Uh if you run an
agency, this can be a project for each
client you're managing. But this will be
highly context dependent. Then fifth, we
have resources. And resources is
basically anything reusable. So you can
imagine it like a library of prompts,
templates, frameworks, maybe content
output examples, good examples, things
like this. Then we have the skill
folder. Uh an important one uh where the
reference material of your skills live.
for example, your strategy docs, your
voice guides, your ICP descriptions, uh,
basically additional information that
your skills point to. So, you can see I
have all my skills here, uh, with the
reference files laid out. By the way, if
you want access to all of the skills
that me and my team are building out and
using, uh, you can also check out my AI
accelerator in the link in the
description. Then, lastly, we have here
tasks. And tasks can basically be uh,
to-do lists. And then we have teams with
more context uh, around each team
member's role and responsibilities in
your business. So your agent always has
context around anyone in your team. And
that's really it. And then at the root
here, you have the clot.md file, the
brain file, which is the instruction
layer that tells your AI agent how this
whole file system here works and how to
navigate it. And this will also appear
in the co-work section in their folder
instruction that I showed you before.
Now, if you're setting this up for
yourself uh as a solopreneur or maybe as
a professional, you can basically have
the same uh structure but a little bit
simpler. Uh so here I have an example of
the personal OS. It's basically the same
file structure uh without the
department, without the team section,
and without the onboarding. So, same
file structure, just a bit simpler. Now,
again, might look overwhelming, but I
started this a few weeks ago with just
five files, and this sort of naturally
grew, and a lot of this uh context has
been created by my AI agent. And the
plug-in we built is going to make this
process a lot easier and faster to do.
So, how do we set it up? You can just go
to Obsidian and download Obsidian for
free. Once you've done that, you'll land
on a screen like this. So you can just
go here to create new vault. For
example, I call it Benai test and then I
have to choose a folder. So I just
create a new folder and this is the
folder that you're going to point cowork
or cloth code or any AI agent you use
towards to access that same vault that
Obsidian visualizes for you. So we open
this one and click create. So we now
have an empty folder. Now if you're
going to set this up in cloud code, you
can also use Obsidian CLI which I'll
make sure to put in the description
below. that can help you get to a basic
generic setup a bit quicker. But as
said, we've built our own plug-in which
is available in my AI accelerator
together with all our other plugins and
skills to get you to that file structure
that I showed you before a lot quicker.
It helps you also populate uh your
essential context a lot faster. And this
plug-in will work across cloud co-work
or cloud code, wherever you want to use
it. So, if that's interesting to you,
you can check it out in my AI
accelerator in the link in description
below. We also have unlimited one-on-one
live tech help available if you want uh
some help setting up these things. We
also do AI workshops where we dive a lot
deeper into these setups and tools. So,
if that's interesting, definitely check
it out. Also, if you're a business and
you want me and my team to help you in a
more personalized way to set up a
business AI OS for your company, we're
now opening a few limited spots to help
businesses set this up. So, if you want
more information, you can also check the
link in the description below. In there,
you can find a link uh with the
marketplace of plugins and skills of my
accelerator. And from there, if you do
it in co-work, you can just go to
customize. Click here on the plus and
you click add marketplace and you add
the link that you find in accelerator.
Once you've done that and you go to
browse plugins, you'll find a tab here
at personal that says Benai skills. And
in there at the bottom, you'll find our
plugin, Ben Obsidian plugin. You can
install that. And now you'll see that in
your plugins, this one will appear. And
there we have the skills that help you
get to that setup in Obsidian a lot
faster. And all we do then is we point
co-work to the same folder that we just
set up in Obsidian. So in this case,
Beni test. We click always allow. And
now we uh use uh the plug-in and the
scale setup.
Right? We run this and it will walk you
through uh the setup on getting to this
file structure a lot faster. And I'll
start asking you some question to get
the essential context set up. So first
it asked me what kind of vault do I want
a business setup or a solopreneur setup.
So in this case I'll do uh solopreneur
just to show you as an example. So now
it's already created the initial folder
structure and the cloud MD with the
instructions on how to navigate this
type of folder structure. As you can see
now in obsidian we already have this
folder structure. Now most of these are
still empty of course because we haven't
given cloud any context. So the next
question is to really start giving it
context. Right? And that's what this
plug-in does, right? It it's going to
ask you some questions to populate your
initial context data set. now want to
spend probably half an hour to an hour
here to get your your initial setup have
the initial context data set and from
there it will naturally expand and I can
tell you if you start using AI more and
more in a couple of weeks you'll have a
very expanded data set of context that
really makes your AI far more powerful.
So a couple of important things to keep
in mind once you get to that initial
data set is every new task you start in
clock code you always want to point
towards that same uh folder. Second,
when there are things that you want your
AI or your second brain to remember,
clearly tell cloud co-work to remember
this in your second brain or whatever
you call your folder. If you can ideally
even point it to the specific file it
has to save that role to. Thirdly, if
you see it have issues navigating the
folder structure, tell it to update the
cloud MD, which you can also do yourself
because remember this is the bridge to
point it to the right direction. So, I
can add in rules all the way at the end
here too. You can see I've already added
some rules on how it should navigate the
folder structure. And then lastly, if
you're going to build skills, I highly
recommend to take a new approach now and
instead of embedding reference files
into the skill here in Cloud Co-work or
in Cloud Code, save the reference files
in your second brain and let the skill
point towards the right folders. You can
also adapt your old skills by just
telling claude. For example, here I
said, can you adapt my LinkedIn skill
and create a new skill and gave it here
specific instruction instead of having
the reference files in the skill point
towards the files in the Ben AIOS to get
the additional info instead of having
them saved in the skill. And again, the
earlier you start with this, the more
powerful your AI agent is going to get
over the long term. So, highly recommend
to start soon with this. Now, that's it
for this video. Again, if you want
access to all of the plug-in skills that
me and my team are building out, plus
unlimited one-on-one live tech help and
AI workshops where we dive a lot deeper
into these tools, you can check out my
AI accelerator in the first link in the
description. And if you're a business
that wants a little bit more
personalized help in setting this up for
your business, you can check the second
link in the description below. Thank you
so much for watching. If you want to
learn more about cloth co-work uh
skills, plugins, etc., You can also
check out the video here above.